["If I Had A Heart" playing]
-[crowd cheering]
-[rhythmic drumming]
[cheering continues]
[drumming stops]
[king 1] I cast my vote...
to Bjorn Ironside.
-[crowd cheering]
-[drumming resumes]
[drumming stops]
My vote goes...
to King Harald.
-[crowd cheering]
-[drumming resumes]
[man] King Harald!
[drumming stops]
And mine to Earl Thorkell.
-[crowd cheering]
-[drumming continues]
[sighs]
-[man] Jarl Thorkell!
-[drumming stops]
I cast my vote
for Bjorn Ironside!
-[crowd cheering]
-[drumming resumes]
-[drumming stops]
-[man 2] Bjorn Ironside!
I cast my vote for King Harald!
-[crowd cheering]
-[drumming resumes]
[drumming stops]
And I also for King Harald!
[water splashes]
-[crowd cheering]
-[drumming resumes]
[Lagertha] Yes.
[horn blowing]
Now we do what we planned.
-All right?
-Yes, Lagertha.
Go.
I cast my vote
for King Harald!
-[crowd cheering]
-[drumming resumes]
[horn blowing]
-[viking] Come on!
-[woman] Prepare for an attack!
To your stations!
[woman 2] They're coming!
Take your positions!
-Look after her.
-Of course. Come, Asa.
Come! To your stations! Go!
You were right.
Not a cause for satisfaction.
Listen.
You and I both know the outcome
of this battle has
already been decided.
But not by men.
By the other women
who spin our fates.
But I hope we survive.
I think you are
good for Bjorn.
And you are
carrying my grandchild.
Yes. We will see
if the child ever sees
the light of day.
I vote
for King Harald
as the new King of Norway!
-[crowd cheering]
-[drumming resumes]
[drumming stops]
I cast my vote...
for King Harald!
[crowd cheering]
Come on then!
Attack us!
We are not afraid.
You have made a big mistake!
I have fought with men
whose names you should
never be to allowed to utter!
I have fought
with Ragnar Lothbrok!
I have fought with
Rollo and Floki.
I have lived a real life!
Come and fight me!
I long for Valhalla!
[grunting]
[yelling]
[both grunt]
[Thorkell] It has always
been his dream!
It has always been
his ambition!
And now...
it has come to pass.
I cast my vote...
for King Harald!
Hail King Harald!
King over all Norway!
[water splashes]
-[yelling]
-[crowd cheering]
[woman cawing]
[cawing]
[gasps]
Come on!
[all shouting]
Gate! Go!
[both grunting]
Now!
Strike!
[screaming]
[yelling]
[shield-maiden 1] Go!
[grunts]
[cawing]
-[shield-maiden 1] Oil!
-[shield-maiden 2] Oil!
-[shield-maiden 3] Pull!
-[shield-maiden 4] Pull!
[all screaming]
[grunting]
[grunts]
[all grunting]
[cawing]
[grunts]
[screams]
[groans]
[White Hair] Lagertha!
[both grunt]
[Lagertha] Now.
[grunts]
[cawing]
[screaming]
[yelling]
[grunts]
Go, go!
[White Hair] What is this?
Are you scared of a few
women and old men?
Why don't you go back to
the forest and live like dogs?
We may be Skogarmaors,
but we can still
reach Valhalla!
[breathing heavily]
-[crowd cheering]
-[drumming]
Thank you.
Thank you!
[drumming stops]
And so it has been fated.
And who are we to question
the wisdom of the gods?
Harald Finehair,
you have been chosen to be
the first King of all Norway.
Drink from the sacrificial cup.
Kneel.
Let no one here
dispute this result,
but embrace it freely,
in the spirit of all
gathered here today.
Harald Finehair...
I crown you...
the first King
of all Norway.
All hail King Harald...
King of all Norway!
-[all cheering]
-[drumming resumes]
Allfather, Odin!
[cheering and drumming]
[sighs]
[all cheering]
[Harald] Ironside! Bjorn!
Bjorn!
Bjorn! No hard feelings!
No.
It was a fair fight! [sighs]
And, unbelievably,
all of us settled
our differences peacefully.
Who would have thought
that could happen?
-Who would have thought?
-[laughs]
Tonight we will feast together!
All of us!
-[cheering]
-Yeah!
Yeah! Together!
I hope you will join us.
I will need your advice
and your experience,
and your strength
in the months
and the years to come.
I will be there.
Thank you, my friend.
Thank you. Thank you all.
Tonight there is a grand feast!
[all cheering]
[Harald] Thank you, my friends!
We will dine!
[breathing heavily]
Lagertha!
Shield-maiden!
Queen of Kattegat!
Your son banished me.
Took away everything I had.
My family, my pride,
my identity.
He thought I would
just crawl away to the forest
and die like some animal!
But that is not my way.
I fought for Ivar,
but in other circumstances,
I would have fought for Bjorn.
Or for you!
I am Viking!
[breathing heavily]
Bjorn did this to me!
I can never get rid of it.
But now I can win back
my self-respect.
I can kill you, Lagertha,
the most famous shield-maiden
in all the world!
And I will!
My son didn't brand you
for being loyal to Ivar!
He branded you
for being disloyal to Ragnar,
and everything
Ragnar stood for!
And if I have to die
for what Ragnar
and I believed in,
it is worth it.
Good. Then be prepared.
[yells]
[both grunting]
[both grunt]
[grunts]
[panting]
You're getting tired,
White Hair.
[White Hair yelling]
I can tell. You're tiring.
You're weak, aren't you?
[groaning]
[both grunt]
You're weak!
You're slow.
[yelling]
You're tired!
[both grunting]
[both panting]
[yelling]
[both grunting]
What's wrong, White Hair?
Make yourself
feel better, shield-maiden.
You should know,
I never get tired!
-[Lagertha yells]
-[panting]
[both grunting]
[woman] Lagertha!
[breathing heavily]
Stay back.
[Lagertha groans]
[both grunting]
[both panting]
No.
[grunts]
[yelling]
[screams]
[panting]
It's all right.
[Gunnhild] I am
a shield-maiden.
I know how to fight.
I have fought
for my life many times.
But I have never seen anything
like what you just did.
If I didn't worship you
before, Lagertha,
I worship you now.
May the gods
in all their wisdom
keep you alive,
for all of our sakes.
[swords beating on shields]
[all] Lagertha. Lagertha.
Lagertha. Lagertha...
[gasps]
[groans]
[breathing heavily]
[choral music playing]
[priest speaks
in native tongue]
Skol! You're a good man!
-[man] To Harald!
-[all cheering]
[Harald] Oh, my goodness!
Maybe we will see
each other later!
I don't know!
[laughs] Thank you.
[woman] Congratulations!
Thank you. You, too!
Ah, thank you, my friends.
Thank you!
[all laughing]
We trust you, King Harald.
We believe in you.
We believe that everything
will change now.
I gave you my word.
And that's enough for me.
Oh, everything changes.
Who cares about the sons
of Ragnar? Huh?
They are the old rulers,
they are the old elite.
They think they have
a divine right to rule.
Bjorn thought he had
a divine right to win!
But it's not true!
-The people should rule!
-[cheering]
The people should win!
[all cheering]
This is what
our new country is all about!
The people!
[all cheering]
And I am the champion
of the people! I am the King
of the people!
[cheering]
And you can see
by the result!
You believe in me!
-You believe in me! Skol!
-[cheering]
King Olaf!
Everybody, King Olaf!
[crowd booing]
[laughs] I hope you're going
to be true to your word?
You promised that,
whoever won,
you would renounce
your kingdom in his favor.
[cheering]
So, how did you win?
I still don't understand.
You mean because
Bjorn Ironside
was supposed to win?
That's how you planned it?
No wonder people rebelled!
[people cheering]
No one wants to be told
what to do!
Skol!
Skol! Skol, friends!
Feast! [laughs]
My people, my warriors.
What did you promise
to all of them,
that made them all change
their minds?
What do you think
I promised them?
I promised each of them
what they wanted to hear.
Whatever that was.
[cheering]
And how do you plan to deliver
on your promise to all of them?
[sniffs]
Who cares?
Listen, you stupid old man!
I always said it was my fate
to become King of all Norway.
And here I am.
But did you really think
I arranged all this?
Don't you think it was fate?
Do you not believe
that the gods were behind it?
Oh, but I forgot.
You don't believe
in our gods anymore!
You don't believe in anything!
You think
everything is just a dream.
[people cheering]
-Let's feast!
-[people cheering]
[Ivar] May I be the first
to congratulate
the bride and the groom
on this momentous day?
Skol!
[Oleg] Skol.
And may Odin, Freyr and Freya
also bless our marriage.
[Katia] Yes. To Odin.
The Allfather.
And to Freyr and Freya.
[Oleg snaps fingers]
-[Ivar] To Odin.
-Skol.
[Ivar] And the gods.
Katia told me that
she reminds you of someone.
Yes.
My wife.
You had a child
with your wife.
No?
How did you know that?
I know a great many things
about you...
Ivar the Boneless.
Am I not a prophet?
Do you mind
if I take off this dress?
It's too hot in here.
Of course, my darling.
I'm sure Ivar won't mind.
Ivar can help.
Can you... undo it, Ivar?
[both gasping]
I don't want to stay.
You have to stay, dear Ivar.
You have to watch.
It's good for you.
[Katia gasping]
[laughing]
[indistinct chatter]
[Harald] Gunnhild.
Gunnhild.
Ah, no.
[chuckles]
I have to thank you,
Ketill Flatnose.
You have been
very helpful to me.
Although I'm
still not sure why.
You can arrange
to send new settlers
to Iceland.
Uh-huh.
I want to be King of Iceland.
And you can make it happen.
So, what will happen
to Bjorn now?
Oh, I have no plans for Bjorn,
but I'm sure he will accept
the verdict of the people.
He is not here.
Once again, I am grateful
for your advice.
[indistinct shouting]
Move.
Where is he?
-Bjorn! You have to leave!
-What do you mean?
Harald is going to kill you!
How do you know?
Don't ask questions.
You must go!
Now, before it's too late!
[banging]
[grunting]
[Bjorn] Ketill!
Let's go!
[groans]
[groaning]
Ketill!
-Ketill!
-I'm sorry, Bjorn!
You see this, Bjorn?
You done this to me.
And now I am going
to do this to you!
[groans]
[grunting]
Come on! Come with me!
I have a boat waiting.
No, we have to take him.
There's no time!
He's too badly wounded!
-[Bjorn] There's still time!
-[groans]
[Bjorn] Get up!
Get up, you fat ass.
[groans]
Move! Move!
Come on, you fat ass.
[groaning]
Move! Row! Move!
-[Viking] Pull! Row! Row!
-[panting]
[Gunnhild] What are you doing?
I am going back to Kattegat.
I need to tell them
what has happened here.
Maybe Bjorn has come back.
I need to tell my son.
I need to see my son.
I'm coming with you.
No. You are wounded.
And you are with child.
With Bjorn's child.
Blessings.
And if you see Bjorn,
tell him I love him, too.
He cannot escape my love.
I'll tell him.
Look after Asa.
[gasping]
Rest up.
I owe you my life, stranger.
What is your name?
-Erik.
-Just Erik?
Yes.
I don't know why you did
what you did.
Is it because I am a son
of Ragnar?
No.
I am too young
to remember Ragnar.
I did what I did
for Bjorn Ironside.
Where are you from?
I am an outlaw.
As a youth, I was
intemperate, hot-headed.
I got involved in a feud
over the death of some slaves,
killed two of my neighbors
in a fight.
For that, I was banished
from my homeland.
How do you survive?
Move around a lot.
Live in the shadows
with my friends here.
Offer my services
as a warrior...
help people out.
Settle scores...
for money...
or for food.
I am in your debt.
For what it is worth,
I offer you my protection.
That is very kind of you.
But I noticed
that you lost the election.
[sighs]
So, I hope there is a future
for both of us, Bjorn Ironside.
[Bjorn breathing heavily]
[music playing]
[singing in native language]
-[horse neighing]
-[Lagertha groans]
[gasping]
[singing continues]
[thunder rumbling]
[gasps]
[groans]
He's coming! He's coming!
-Who?
-Ivar! Ivar!
He's not coming!
You don't know. You--
You don't hear him.
He's almost here.
He's coming from the sky.
It's not true, Hvitserk!
He's not a god and you know
he's not a god!
[grunting]
You have to sleep.
How can I sleep
when Ivar is coming
to kill me?
Huh? Do you want him
No, of course I don't.
Then shut your mouth!
This is between him and me!
His fate and my fate!
[thunder rumbling]
It's here.
[gasping] It's arrived!
You mustn't go out.
You're sick, Hvitserk. Sick.
If you go out,
what will you do?
[screams]
[thunder rumbling]
[woman continues singing]
[yelling]
[gasping]
[gasps]
It is what
the Seer foretold...
that one day...
I would be killed
by a son of Ragnar.
[Hvitserk breathing shakily]
I could not escape it.
Nor could you.
Weep not, poor Hvitserk.
Tonight I will sit
with my beloved Ragnar
in the halls of the gods.
[thunder rumbling]
I-- I've lived a full life.
I am not afraid.
[breathing shakily]
[Hvitserk whimpers]
[woman continues singing]
[singing ends]
[music playing]